Coronavirus disease (COVID-19): 
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus.Most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without requiring special treatment.  Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and cancer are more likely to develop serious illness.
The best way to prevent and slow down transmission is be well informed about the COVID-19 virus, the disease it causes and how it spreads. Protect yourself and others from infection by washing your hands or using an alcohol based rub frequently and not touching your face. 
The COVID-19 virus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes, so it’s important that you also practice respiratory etiquette (for example, by coughing into a flexed elbow).
At this time, there are no specific vaccines or treatments for COVID-19. However, there are many ongoing clinical trials evaluating potential treatments. WHO will continue to provide updated information as soon as clinical findings become available.


common symptoms:
fever, 
dry,
cough, 
tiredness
common symptoms:
aches and pains,
sore throat,
diarrhoea,
conjunctivitis,
headache,
loss of taste or smell,
a rash on skin, or discolouration of fingers or toes.

Serious symptoms:
difficulty breathing or shortness of breath,
chest pain or pressure,
loss of speech or movement.

how long it will take symptoms to show:
On average it takes 5–6 days from when someone is infected with the virus for symptoms to show, however it can take up to 14 days.


To prevent the spread of COVID-19:
Clean your hands often. Use soap and water, or an alcohol-based hand rub,
Maintain a safe distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing,
Don’t touch your eyes, nose or mouth,
Cover your nose and mouth with your bent elbow or a tissue when you cough or sneeze,
Stay home if you feel unwell,
If you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention. Call in advance,
Follow the directions of your local health authority,
Avoiding unneeded visits to medical facilities allows healthcare systems to operate more effectively, therefore protecting you and others

Treatments:
To date, there are no specific vaccines or medicines for COVID-19. Treatments are under investigation, and will be tested through clinical trials. World Health Organization
Self-care. If you feel sick you should rest, drink plenty of fluid, and eat nutritious food. Stay in a separate room from other family members, and use a dedicated bathroom if possible. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces.
Everyone should keep a healthy lifestyle at home. Maintain a healthy diet, sleep, stay active, and make social contact with loved ones through the phone or internet. Children need extra love and attention from adults during difficult times. Keep to regular routines and schedules as much as possible.
It is normal to feel sad, stressed, or confused during a crisis. Talking to people you trust, such as friends and family, can help. If you feel overwhelmed, talk to a health worker or counsellor.


origin:
Chinese authorities have identified human cases with onset of symptoms in early December 2019. While some of the earliest known cases had a link to a wholesale food market in Wuhan
 